>> James Halliday: I'd like to keep
going if that's okay, and talk about
job control which is an important idea in
bash and also like the operating system.
It contextualizes how we run programs
as well I think in a nice way.
So If you remember, UNIX systems
are kind of first designed for
doing time sharing on
these big mainframes which
kind of carry you over a lot of those
ideas into modern systems as well.
They're still useful for
time sharing operating systems
which is what we all have now.
We can run multiple programs at the same
time, so here's a fun game we can play.
It's called time cat.
So if you take time cat, how you play
this game is (you do time cat) you
try to get as close to one second
without going over as possible.
>> James Halliday: 0.5.
>> James Halliday: 0.7,
0.91, that's pretty good.
And then you hit CTRL + C when
you want the program to exit.
And it will print the amount
of time that has elapsed.
So Ctrl+C is an example of
a signal that gets sent to
the program when you
want the program to exit.
>> James Halliday: Any high scores?
>> Speaker 2: 0.97.
>> Speaker 3: Yep, 1.017.
>> James Halliday: That doesn't count,
you went over it.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: That's what I was afraid of.
>> James Halliday: [LAUGH] It's
like Price is Right rules.
So anyways,
that's just a fun example of CTRL+C.
Also if a program is running and
you just want it to stop,
if you hit CTRL+C,
>> James Halliday: Then it will stop.
[LAUGH]
>> James Halliday: There's
another fun thing called CTRL+Z.
So CTRL+Z takes something
from the foreground.
Which is all that we've dealt with so far.
So whenever you run a command, you're
actually running it in the foreground and
so for example if I run watch
>> James Halliday: That
should one date then it's gonna
just run this command every second.
If I hit Ctrl+Z then it
takes that program that
was running in the foreground and it puts
it in the background and it stops it So
now that program is no longer running,
and I can do other stuff.
I can take LS, take date.
And when I resume that program,
I can type fg,
which puts that program
back in the foreground.
And there it is.
>> James Halliday: You can actually do
this to more than one program at a time.
So if I want to open up
a file called cool.txt,
>> James Halliday: I can do CTRL+Z there
as well, and
now I see that this is job number two.
And you can type this command called
jobs to see what jobs are running,
and if you do foreground, it's going
to go the last Job that was active.
But you can also specify a number for
the job, like %1 refers to the first job,
which is the watch kids.
And %2 is in this case VI,
which is the running.
>> James Halliday: You can also
use the command called kill to
send a signal to the program to terminate.
So, if I do kill %2,
that's gonna stop the text editor, vim.
So, if I type jobs now,
actually it didn't kill it,
because some programs are a bit touchy
about what signals they accept.
So if you send just the standard
which is the hangup signal to vim,
then it won't actually stop.
So you might have to send
a different kind of signal like,
if you've ever heard of -9,
that's like the most severe kind of
Signal you can get a program that can't
be intercepted by the program itself.
So the operating system
will just deal with it, and
it will get rid of that program for
you, so.
So then if you hit Enter again, you see
that, yeah that job was killed now.
And there's only this one running.
I think the other one will
probably be better behaved.
No it's still running.
Could try HUP, no doesn't do.
Yeah I guess just -9 that one as well,
then it's gone.
I think when jobs are in
a stop status they
don't,
>> James Halliday: It's
a little bit harder.
So how the signals work with
like hitting CTRL+Z and
also doing fg is also with bt sending
a signal, which is what killed us.
So, there's a bunch of signals,
I think if you man kill, it doesn't
list the signals there, but there's a man
page that it references called signal.
And you can read about what all the
signals do, it's actually about c source,
but I think if you scroll down a ways,
well, I guess it's not in there.
But, anyways, there are a bunch of
these signals, they also have names,
so they are called things like SIGTERM,
or SIGKILL,
is the one that's dash nine, or SIGCUP
>> James Halliday: And how the stop and
foreground works is there's one
called sig cont, sig continue, for
doing the foregrounding, and sig stop,
which puts the Java in the background.
So it's sort of how that
works behind the scenes.
And this is something that
the kernel handles for you.
>> James Halliday: There's also a %% which
is like the same as the last job if you
need to mess around with jobs.
I found that it's pretty handy to use Vim.
If you're giving a presentation or
something and
you have Vim open, and
maybe you're coding something and
then you wanna like drop down
to the command line really fast.
You can just hit Ctrl+Z, and do some
stuff, like run a program whatever,
and then fg back into your text editor.
That's a pretty handy work for
us sometimes.
>> James Halliday: Another way to
background something right away,
if you don't wanna run something and
then hit Ctrl+Z right away,
you can do just an N percent.
So for example, if I do watch dash N
one date ampersand, it's going to put that
program in the background immediately.
But it's not actually going to run
that program because it stopped.
So what you have to do if you want one of
those programs that's in the background
to run in the background
you can do BG which
not all programs are very happy about, so
like this one in particular doesn't
really like being put in the background.
But for other programs,
they'll just keep going, so
like if I write a little
script with the sub shell,
I think that that'll work,
so I do sleep one, date.
>> James Halliday: Right, yes, so
this one is just running on its own.
And so this is pretty trippy.
There's actually a program running that's
spamming my terminal with output but
I can also type commands and things.
So if you just kill % % then it stops it.
>> James Halliday: And
now, there's no more jobs.
If you accidentally spawn a bunch of
zombie processes that are running in
the background and you don't know how to
stop them, there's a really useful command
called pgrep that searches for
a process by its name.
So, if you remember that you started
a program like watch or something,
you can do, so if I start up that
program again, It's like no,
and if you do pgrep watch then you can
see that there's all of these processes.
Wanna do it over here.
You could also -l and -lf will kinda
list a bit more about the program.
So this is all watchdog, it's actually
because the watch command is,
this isn't the watch command, that's why.
This is a while true command.
>> James Halliday: Now,
why don't I run a watch command?
Now, over here we should see it.
Right.
So there we go.
That's our program.
If I just do this other
command called pkill watch,
it's gonna try to kill all these jobs, but
these are all owned by the root user so
it's only gonna be able to kill this one
which is actually what we want it to do.
And there we go,
that program is already terminated.
So these are some ways p-grab, p-kill,
different ways of managing
processes on your system.
You could also kill a process by its pid
it's called which is the process ID,
which is this number right here.
So every process has an ID that
you can reference that by.
Okay, why don't we-.
>> Speaker 2: Question.
>> James Halliday: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: If I do CTRL+Z to put
a process in the background,
on my terminal it says suspended,
and to me the word means sleep or
not running.
But it's really running, right?
>> James Halliday: It depends.
Sometimes, the programs,
they can listen to these events and
decide to do different things.
I think by default, the process will
keep going if you do CTRL+Z, but
some programs know that they shouldn't
do anything cuz they can listen for
that event, like the watch command and
VI, just kinda suspends operations.
>> Speaker 2: So it depends.
>> James Halliday: It depends, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: All right.